.TH sysmaint 1 "November 2025" "sysmaint 2.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sysmaint \- safe system maintenance for Ubuntu/Debian with JSON telemetry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysmaint
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sysmaint
is a conservative maintenance orchestrator for Ubuntu/Debian systems.
It performs safe APT updates and cleanup, supports Snap/Flatpak/fwupd,
emits a rich JSON summary, and offers optional phases such as a final
full-upgrade or kernel purge.

By default it updates packages, cleans caches (journal, thumbnails, crash),
clears /tmp by age, and performs diagnostics (failed services, zombies).

.SH OPTIONS (HIGHLIGHTS)
.TP
.B --dry-run
Preview actions without changes (recommended for first run).
.TP
.B --json-summary
Write a JSON summary to $LOG_DIR/sysmaint_<RUN_ID>.json.
.TP
.B --upgrade
Enable the final apt full-upgrade phase near the end (opt-in).
.TP
.B --purge-kernels
Purge old kernels (pair with --keep-kernels=N). Consider --update-grub.
.TP
.B --security-audit
Run minimal permissions audit (shadow/gshadow/sudoers).
.TP
.B --browser-cache-report | --browser-cache-purge
Report or purge desktop browser caches.
.TP
.B --color=auto|always|never
Control ANSI colors on terminal output.
.TP
.B --auto
Autopilot: assume yes, allow auto reboot (see --auto-reboot-delay).

For the full list, run: sysmaint --help

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/local/sbin/sysmaint
Installed script path (typical).
.TP
.B /tmp/system-maintenance/
Default LOG_DIR containing logs and JSON.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0 success; 1 general error; 10 repo validation failures; 20 missing APT keys;
30 failed services; 75 lock timeout; 100 reboot required.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apt (8),
.BR snap (8),
.BR systemd (1)

.SH AUTHOR
sysmaint maintainers <maintainers@example.com>
